Add Oauth section to Connector SDK page. (#695)
tableau/connector-plugin-sdk: docs/oauth.md

---
title: OAuth Authentication Support
---

> **IMPORTANT:** This feature is available only in Tableau 2021.1 or later. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**IMPORTANT:** This feature is available in Tableau 2021.1 and newer. 
```

# How to enable OAuth for a plugin connector

> First check your Database and Driver document to make sure if it supports OAuth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First check your database and driver documentation to make sure it supports OAuth.
```

> To enable OAUth for your connector, in the manifest add another field `<oauth-config>` and link to a oauthConfig.xml you created, described below. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable OAuth for your connector add an `<oauth-config>` field in the manifest.xml and link to an oauthConfig.xml you created, described below. 
```

```xml
  manifest.xml

  <?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8' ?>

  <connector-plugin class=...>
    ...
    <dialect file='dialect.tdd'/>
    <oauth-config file='oauthConfig.xml'/>    <!-- add this to to define your OAuth Configs -->
  </connector-plugin>
```

> In your connectionFields.xml file make sure add an authentication with value equal to "oauth"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your connectionFields.xml file make sure add an `authentication` field with a value equal to `oauth`.
```

```xml
  connectionFields.xml Single Auth Type:

  <field name="authentication" label="Authentication" category="authentication" value-type="string" editable="false" default-value="oauth" />
```

```xml
  connectionFields.xml Multiple Auth Types:

  <field name="authentication" label="Authentication" category="authentication" value-type="selection" default-value="auth-user-pass" >
    <selection-group>
      <option value="auth-user-pass" label="Username and Password"/>
      <option value="oauth" label="OAuth"/>
    </selection-group>
  </field>
```

> In your connectionBuilder.js file you need to use your DB sepcific logic to handle how to pass in OAuth attributes. E.g. for snowflake:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your connectionBuilder.js file you need to use your DB sepcific logic to handle how to pass in OAuth attributes. Example:
```

```js

>   connectionBuilder.js
>   if(authAttrValue == "oauth")
>     {
>         params["AUTHENTICATOR"] = "OAUTH";
>         params["TOKEN"] = attr["ACCESSTOKEN"];
>     }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  connectionBuilder.js
  if(authAttrValue == "oauth")
  {
      params["AUTHENTICATOR"] = "OAUTH";
      params["TOKEN"] = attr["ACCESSTOKEN"];
  }
```

```

# The OAuth Config File

> The OAuth Config file defines your oauth connector configs and also provide the ability to customize how your oauth flow should work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OAuth Config file defines your connector's OAuth configuration and also provide the ability to customize how the OAuth flow should work.
```

The OAuth Config file ([XSD](https://github.com/tableau/connector-plugin-sdk/blob/dev-2021.1/validation/oauth_config.xsd)) is indentified in the manifest using the `<oauth-config>` element. Here we discuss the structure of this file.

## XML Elements

### `<pluginOAuthConfig>`

This is the parent element for all fields.

### `Elements`

Each OAuth config attribute is represented by an element in the XML, the element name is the attribute name and the content is the attribute value.

| Name  | Type | Meaning | Optional? | Notes |
| ----  | ------- | --------- | ----------- | ----------- |

> | dbclass | String | The dbclass for your oauthConfig | No | dbclass must be same with the `class` attribute in manifest.xml | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| dbclass | String | The identifier for your oauthConfig | No | The dbclass must be same with as the `class` attribute in manifest.xml | 
```

> | clientIdDesktop | String | Client ID you registered for Tableau Desktop | Yes | This is not considered as secrets and will be stored in plain text | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| clientIdDesktop | String | Client ID you registered for Tableau Desktop | Yes | This is not considered a secret and will be stored in plain text | 
```

> | clienSecretDesktop | String | Client Secret you registered for Tableau Desktop | Yes | This is not considered as secrets and will be stored in plain text | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| clienSecretDesktop | String | Client Secret you registered for Tableau Desktop | Yes | This is not considered a secret and will be stored in plain text | 
```

| redirectUrisDesktop | String[] | Redirect Urls for Desktop | Yes	| The host for redirectUrisDesktop must be a valid loopback address| 
| authUri | String | Authorization endpoint URI | No | |
| tokenUri | String | Token endpoint URI | No | |
| userInfoUri | String | User Info UrI | Yes | |
| instanceUrlValidationRegex | String | Use to validate against your OAuth instance Url. | Yes | |
| scopes | String[] | scopes | No | |

> | capabilities | Map<String, String> | This defines how oauth flow behaves differently according the caps you set. | Yes | |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| capabilities | Map<String, String> | This defines how OAuth flow behaves differently according the capabilities set. | Yes | |
```
Let's try to consistently use `OAuth`, except in the code snippits.

| accessTokenResponseMaps | Map<String, String> | Key value pair that maps an initial token request response attribute <value> to Tableau recognized attribute <key> | No | |

> | refreshTokenResponseMaps | Map<String, String> | Key value pair that maps an refresh token request response attribute <value> to Tableau recognized attribute <key> | Yes | if not defined will use accessTokenResponseMaps by default |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| refreshTokenResponseMaps | Map<String, String> | Key value pair that maps an refresh token request response attribute <value> to Tableau recognized attribute <key> | Yes | If not defined will use accessTokenResponseMaps by default |
```

| CAP_FIXED_PORT_IN_CALLBACK_URL | Use this when your OAuth provider native app(Tableau Desktop) OAuth clients only support fixed callback url | false | - |
| CAP_SUPPORTS_HTTP_SCHEME_LOOPBACK_REDIRECT_URLS | Use this when your OAuth provider native app(Tableau Desktop) OAuth clients support Loopback callback url. E.g. https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/oauth2/native-app | false | - |
| CAP_REQUIRES_PROMPT_CONSENT | Add prompt=consent to the request. | false | - |
| CAP_REQUIRES_PROMPT_SELECT_ACCOUNT | Add propmt=select_account to the request. More details: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/v2-oauth2-auth-code-flow | false | - |
| CAP_SUPPORTS_GET_USERINFO_FROM_ID_TOKEN | Used when your OAuth response contains a JWT style ID_TOKEN that can be parsed out to get actual username. e.g. https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/id-tokens | false | - |

## Example OAuthConfig file:
**oauthConfig.xml**

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<pluginOAuthConfig>
    <!-- dbclass must correspond to the class registered in manifest.xml --> 

>     <dbclass>snowflake_oauth</dbclass>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <dbclass>oauth_sample</dbclass>
```

            <value>true</value>
        </entry>
        <entry>
            <key>CAP_FIXED_PORT_IN_CALLBACK_URL</key>
            <value>true</value>
        </entry>
        <entry>
            <key>CAP_PKCE_REQUIRES_CODE_CHALLENGE_METHOD</key>
            <value>true</value>
        </entry>
    </capabilities>
    <!-- Map Tableau recognized attr <key> to Snowflake OAuth response attr <value> -->
    <accessTokenResponseMaps>
        <entry>
            <key>ACCESSTOKEN</key>
            <value>access_token</value>
        </entry>
        <entry>
            <key>REFRESHTOKEN</key>
            <value>refresh_token</value>
        </entry>
        <entry>
            <key>access-token-issue-time</key>
            <value>issued_at</value>
        </entry>
        <entry>
            <key>access-token-expires-in</key>
            <value>expires_in</value>
        </entry>
        <entry>
            <key>username</key>
            <value>username</value>
        </entry>
    </accessTokenResponseMaps>
    <!-- No refreshTokenResponseMaps needed since that's same with the accessTokenResponseMaps -->
 </pluginOAuthConfig>

```
# OAuth on Tableau Desktop

> Your Desktop sign in Dialog will look like this, you can choose different auth mode and notice different required fields appear. This example has multiple auth type supported and one of them is oauth. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Tableau Desktop the connection dialog will look like this.  If a different auth mode is chosen, notice different required fields appear. This example has multiple auth modes supported and one of them is OAuth. 
```

![Image](../assets/oauth-desktop-dialog.png)

> By clicking the sign in button, you will be directed to your OAuth Provider's sign in Url in a default browser on your machine where you can input your credentials, Tableau will get the required attrs back and upon complete you will see this screen:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By clicking the sign in button, you will be directed to your OAuth Provider's sign in Url in a default browser on your machine where you can input your credentials, Tableau will get the required attributes back and upon complete you will see this screen:
```

![Image](../assets/oauth-desktop-complete.png)

# OAuth on Tableau Server

## Configure OAuth Clients on Server

Config your OAuth client on your server: This would be the first step you need to perform for enabling OAuth on Tableau Server, this will setup OAuth Client information to be used on Tableau Server, e.g.:
```
tsm configuration set -k oauth.config.clients -v "[{\"oauth.config.id\":\"snowflake_oauth\", \"oauth.config.client_id\":\"[your_client_id]\", \"oauth.config.client_secret\":\"[your_client_secret]\", \"oauth.config.redirect_uri\":\"[your_redirect_url]\"}]" --force-keys
```
You need to subsitute [your_client_id], [your_client_secret], [your_redirect_url] with the ones you registered in your provider's OAuth registration page.
[your_redirect_url] needs to follow certain format, if your server address is https://Myserver/ then [your_reirect_uri] needs to be https://Myserver/auth/add_oauth_token.

## Server Add OAuth token flow

> To add an OAuth credential on Tableau Server, you will go to **My Account Settings** page, look for your class in the **Saved Credentals For DataSources** Section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add an OAuth credential on Tableau Server, you will go to **My Account Settings** page, look for your connector in the **Saved Credentals For DataSources** Section.
```

> After successfully added your credential you will notice an entry appear under your class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After successfully added your credential you will notice an entry appear under your connector.
```

![Image](../assets//oauth-server-addtoken.png)

## Desktop Publish flow

> When publishing a pluggable OAuth Workbook/DataSource to Tableau Server, you will see multiple auth options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When publishing an OAuth enabled connector's Workbook or Data Source to Tableau Server, you will see multiple auth options:
```

**Prompt** means this resource will published without embedding credential, viewers would need to provide credential to access the resource.
**Embedding [your_username]** means you will embed the credential with username **[your_username]** to this resource, so all the viewer can use the same credential **[ABC]** to access the resource. Note in order for this to show up, you must already have added a saved OAuth credential according to previous section. You would see multiple entries if you have multiple records of saved credentials and you can pick which one you wanna use for embedding. 

> **Embed Password** is no longer a supported auth mechanism for Pluggable OAuth connectors and an error will show up if you choose that option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Embed Password** is not a supported auth mechanism for OAuth connectors and an error will show up if you choose that option.
```

![Image](../assets/oauth-desktop-publish.PNG)

> ## Web Create flow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Tableau Server Web Authoring flow
```

> For Web Create, the UI dialog would be same with Tableau Desktop with the difference that we are using the server OAuth Client configs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Web Authoring, the UI dialog will be same as Tableau Desktop. The difference will be that we are using the server OAuth Client configs.
```
I don't follow this part?  There is only one oauthConfig.xml for a connector.  Are different parts of it used on server and not desktop?

Author: Nope, since we are not registering the server oauth clients info in the OAuthConfig so on server we'll use the one registered with tsm command, while on desktop we use the one registered in oauthConfig file.

Reviewer: Got it, I missed that.  Maybe something like we'll use the server OAuth Client config set above with the tsm command.

| clienSecretDesktop | String | Client Secret you registered for Tableau Desktop | Yes | This is not considered as secrets and will be stored in plain text | 
| redirectUrisDesktop | String[] | Redirect Urls for Desktop | Yes	| The host for redirectUrisDesktop must be a valid loopback address| 
| authUri | String | Authorization endpoint URI | No | |
| tokenUri | String | Token endpoint URI | No | |
| userInfoUri | String | User Info UrI | Yes | |
| instanceUrlValidationRegex | String | Use to validate against your OAuth instance Url. | Yes | |
| scopes | String[] | scopes | No | |
| capabilities | Map<String, String> | This defines how oauth flow behaves differently according the caps you set. | Yes | |
| accessTokenResponseMaps | Map<String, String> | Key value pair that maps an initial token request response attribute <value> to Tableau recognized attribute <key> | No | |
| refreshTokenResponseMaps | Map<String, String> | Key value pair that maps an refresh token request response attribute <value> to Tableau recognized attribute <key> | Yes | if not defined will use accessTokenResponseMaps by default |

> ## Supported Capabilities

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Supported OAuth Capabilities
```

Reviewer 2: You may also want to add a line in the general capabilities page saying something like "For Oauth-specific capabilities, go here" and link back to this page.

Author: Yep sounds good.

> This set of OAuth Config capabilities are not shared with the regular plugin capabilities so that's why we are listing these here.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This set of OAuth Config capabilities are not shared with the regular connector capabilities.
```

    your input instanceUrl + authUri/tokenUri -->
    <authUri>/oauth/authorize</authUri>
    <tokenUri>/oauth/token-request</tokenUri>
    <!-- Used to prevent malicious instanceUrl, your instanceUrl must match this regular expression or OAuth flow will abort -->
    <instanceUrlValidationRegex>^https:\/\/(.+\.)?(snowflakecomputing\.(com|us|cn|de))(.*)</instanceUrlValidationRegex>
    <!-- Snowflake need refresh_token scope to issue refresh tokens -->
    <scopes>refresh_token</scopes>
    <!-- Snowflake supports PKCE, Cutom domain, fixed callback url -->
    <capabilities>
        <entry>
            <key>CAP_PKCE_REQUIRES_CODE_CHALLENGE_METHOD</key>
            <value>true</value>
        </entry>
        <entry>
            <key>CAP_SUPPORTS_CUSTOM_DOMAIN</key>
            <value>true</value>
        </entry>
        <entry>
            <key>CAP_REQUIRE_PKCE</key>
            <value>true</value>
        </entry>
        <entry>
            <key>CAP_FIXED_PORT_IN_CALLBACK_URL</key>
            <value>true</value>
        </entry>
        <entry>
            <key>CAP_PKCE_REQUIRES_CODE_CHALLENGE_METHOD</key>
            <value>true</value>
        </entry>
    </capabilities>

>     <!-- Map Tableau recognized attr <key> to Snowflake OAuth response attr <value> -->

Reviewer 2: Is this snowflake specific, or general?

Author: This is general I'll change the comments.

Config your OAuth client on your server: This would be the first step you need to perform for enabling OAuth on Tableau Server, this will setup OAuth Client information to be used on Tableau Server, e.g.:
```
tsm configuration set -k oauth.config.clients -v "[{\"oauth.config.id\":\"snowflake_oauth\", \"oauth.config.client_id\":\"[your_client_id]\", \"oauth.config.client_secret\":\"[your_client_secret]\", \"oauth.config.redirect_uri\":\"[your_redirect_url]\"}]" --force-keys
```
You need to subsitute [your_client_id], [your_client_secret], [your_redirect_url] with the ones you registered in your provider's OAuth registration page.
[your_redirect_url] needs to follow certain format, if your server address is https://Myserver/ then [your_reirect_uri] needs to be https://Myserver/auth/add_oauth_token.

## Server Add OAuth token flow

To add an OAuth credential on Tableau Server, you will go to **My Account Settings** page, look for your class in the **Saved Credentals For DataSources** Section.
After successfully added your credential you will notice an entry appear under your class.

![Image](../assets//oauth-server-addtoken.png)

## Desktop Publish flow

> hen publishing a pluggable OAuth Workbook/DataSource to Tableau Server, you wil see multiple auth options:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When publishing a pluggable OAuth Workbook/DataSource to Tableau Server, you will see multiple auth options:
```

> **propmt** means this resource will published without embedding credential, viewers would need to provide credential to access the resource.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Prompt** means this resource will published without embedding credential, viewers would need to provide credential to access the resource.
```

> **embedding [your_username]** means you will embed the credential with username **[your_username]** to this resource, so all the viewer can use the same credential **[ABC]** to access the resource. Note in order for this to show up, you must already have added a saved OAuth credential according to previous section. You would see multiple entries if you have multiple records of saved credentials and you can pick which one you wanna use for embedding. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Embedding [your_username]** means you will embed the credential with username **[your_username]** to this resource, so all the viewer can use the same credential **[ABC]** to access the resource. Note in order for this to show up, you must already have added a saved OAuth credential according to previous section. You would see multiple entries if you have multiple records of saved credentials and you can pick which one you wanna use for embedding. 
```

> **embed Password** is no longer a supported auth mechanism for Pluggable OAuth connectors and an error will show up if you choose that option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Embed Password** is no longer a supported auth mechanism for Pluggable OAuth connectors and an error will show up if you choose that option.
```

            <value>expires_in</value>
        </entry>
        <entry>
            <key>username</key>
            <value>username</value>
        </entry>
    </accessTokenResponseMaps>
    <!-- No refreshTokenResponseMaps needed since that's same with the accessTokenResponseMaps -->
 </pluginOAuthConfig>

```
# OAuth on Tableau Desktop

In Tableau Desktop the connection dialog will look like this.  If a different auth mode is chosen, notice different required fields appear. This example has multiple auth modes supported and one of them is OAuth. 

![Image](../assets/oauth-desktop-dialog.png)

By clicking the sign in button, you will be directed to your OAuth Provider's sign in Url in a default browser on your machine where you can input your credentials, Tableau will get the required attributes back and upon complete you will see this screen:

![Image](../assets/oauth-desktop-complete.png)

# OAuth on Tableau Server

## Configure OAuth Clients on Server

Config your OAuth client on your server: This would be the first step you need to perform for enabling OAuth on Tableau Server, this will setup OAuth Client information to be used on Tableau Server, e.g.:
```

> tsm configuration set -k oauth.config.clients -v "[{\"oauth.config.id\":\"snowflake_oauth\", \"oauth.config.client_id\":\"[your_client_id]\", \"oauth.config.client_secret\":\"[your_client_secret]\", \"oauth.config.redirect_uri\":\"[your_redirect_url]\"}]" --force-keys

Reviewer: I'd make this consistent with the dbClass above.  Also its not clear from this doc that oauth.config.id is the same as the class in the manifest (and dbClass above)
